thank you Madame President members of
the Court it is an honor to appear
before you today on behalf of the state
of
Israel it falls to me to address the
condition of risk of irreparable harm
and
urgency this third condition is of
course dependent on the two preceding
ones Professor Shaw and Miss rajuan have
already shown that the provisions relied
upon by the applicant do not afford even
Prima fasi a basis on which this Court's
Jurisdiction could be
founded they also showed that the rights
asserted by the applicant cannot be
regarded as
plausible it follows that the
irreparable consequences cannot in the
present case be caused by the alleged
disregard of rights under the genocide
convention again
this is not at all to say that the
humanitarian situation arising from the
present armed conflict is not
grave civilians have been severely
affected by the hostilities instigated
by
Hamas its systematic strategy of
Prosecuting war from under and within
the civilian population exposes
civilians to Great risk and it has
brought about great suffering
Israel has done and is doing a great
deal to alleviate this suffering in very
challenging
circumstances in this regard the factual
account provided by the applicant is
once again entirely
one-sided the application and request
run no less than
pages but they make hardly any mention
of the extraordinary efforts undertaken
by Israel and by a host of other states
and international actors to improve the
humanitarian
situation we again heard virtually
nothing from the applicant on this issue
yesterday but this is a critical factor
in the request before you as Miss rajuan
has shown it frustrates any attempt to
establish the necessary special intent
for
genocide it also Bears upon the third
condition established in your case
law Madame President members of the
Court we know from your case law that
the power of the court to indicate
provisional measures will be exercised
only in exceptional
circumstances there needs to be as you
have said a real and imminent risk that
irreparable prejudice will be caused to
the rights claimed before the Court
gives its final
decision your order in the Myanmar case
in which the genocide convention was
also invoked suggests that the adoption
and I quote of concrete measures aimed
specifically in recognizing and ensuring
the right end of quote of the group in
question to exist would mean that
irreparable harm and urgency cannot be
established precisely such concrete
measures have been taken by Israel which
has been facilitating the provision of
more and more humanitarian assistance
for people in need throughout the Gaza
Strip these steps have not only been
increasing so as to meet the developing
situation on the ground they are
continuously undertaken specifically in
order to prevent harm to the civilian
population these efforts have had an
impact just last week for example with
the assistance of the world food program
a dozen bakeries reopened with the
capacity to produce more than 2 million
breads a
day the world food program has said the
delivery of flour salt sugar and yeast
continues so as to enable more bakeries
to reopen increasing accessibility and
affordability for thousands of
families and since the applicant
mentioned yesterday the number of trucks
entering Gaza each day before and after
the war the accurate average number for
trucks specifically carrying food is 70
trucks a day before the war and 109
trucks a day over the last two weeks all
this information may be found in your
judge's folder
access to water has also been a
priority as with Food Supplies there is
no restriction on the amount of water
that may enter
Gaza Israel continues to supply its own
water to Gaza by two
pipelines it facilitates the delivery of
bottled water in large
quantities and it repairs and indeed
expands water infrastructure that has
been damaged by the
fighting an additional water pipe
bringing water into Southern Gaza from
Egypt began operating a few weeks
ago access to medical supplies and
services is also
growing Israel has so far facilitated
the establishment of four field
hospitals and two floating
hospitals the establishment of two more
hospitals is
underway isra is is facilitating the
entry of Medical Teams into Gaza as also
vaccinations including in cooperation
with
UNICEF ill and wounded persons are being
evacuated through the Rafa border
crossing to Egypt the United Arab
Emirates turkey Qatar and
Jordan tents and winter equipment are
being distributed as
well the constant delivery of fuel and
cooking gas is also
facilitated according to official data
again in your judges folders from a
December the amount of fuel entering
Gaza has doubled and currently stands at
180,000 lers a
day this is a target amount requested by
the UN
itself since 21 December the amount of
cooking gas entering Gaza has also
doubled now standing at an average of 90
tons per
day details of this kind concerning the
various ongoing humanitarian efforts are
updated every single day on a designated
English website of Kat the unit in the
ministry of Defense in charge of
monitoring the humanitarian
situation when pressing needs are
identified Solutions are soon
coordinated a great effort is indeed
invested in eliminating
bottlenecks so as to improve the
entrance and distribution of Aid not
withstanding Hamas constantly stealing
it as you have heard a joint operations
room involving Israel Egypt the United
States and the UN operates daily to
solve in real time logistical
difficulties Israel also coordinates
with various un agencies and the icrc to
address their own
needs on 15 December Israel decided to
open its Crossing at km Shalom with the
express intention to improve and upgrade
the delivery of humanitarian assistance
to Palestinian civilians in Gaza
that part of the government's decision
is in your judge's folder as
well this has eased congestion at the
Rafa Crossing and helped facilitate the
provision of Greater amounts of
Aid Israel facilitates air routes as
well for parach shuting Aid directly
into
Gaza facilitating a maritime Corridor is
currently being considered with other
states Madame President members of the
court again these are just some
examples but they show that Israel no
doubt meets the legal test of concrete
measures aimed specifically at
recognizing and ensuring the rights of
the Palestinian civilians in Gaza to
exist it has been the daily work of
numerous Israeli officials of various
agen genes to ensure that these and
other steps are effectively carried out
at a time when they and their families
are themselves under constant
attack a
determination that the multilateral
large scale humanitarian effort is
lacking or that scaling up access of
humanitarian relief to Gaza would be of
no avail as the applicant would have you
believe should not be made lightly
Madame President members of the Court
two additional elements warrant your
careful
attention they too suggest that the
condition of urgency is not as easily
met as the applicant would have you
believe
First the scope and intensity of the
hostilities has been
decreasing Israel's defense minister
said last week that Israeli forces would
be shifting from the intense maneuvering
phase of the war toward and I quote
different types of Special
Operations this statement made in an
interview to International media is
found a tab 16a of the volume
submitted this week on 8 January the
spokesperson for the Israeli military
confirmed that the Israeli campaign had
already started a transition to fewer
ground troops and fewer air
strikes the war shifted a stage he
said as you will see in tab 16b of the
volume he spoke of a new and less
intense phase of
fighting he specifically mentioned that
Israel will continue to reduce the
number of troops in
Gaza five brigades
consisting of thousands of soldiers have
already been withdrawn from the
territory
second the UN Security Council has only
recently adopted a resolution for the
specific purpose of alleviating the
humanitarian
situation by resolution
2720 of 22 December which is found at
tab 16 C of the volume the council
demanded the immediate and unconditional
release of all
hostages as well as the delivery of
humanitarian assistance at scale
directly to the Palestinian civilian
population throughout the Gaza
Strip more specifically still the
council requested the Secretary General
to appoint a senior coordinator in order
to establish a un mechanism for
accelerating the provision of
humanitarian relief Consignments to
Gaza contrary to what we heard yesterday
this resolution does not and I quote
remain
unimplemented close quote a senior
coordinator has been appointed and
indeed began her work the council
remains actively seized of the
matter Israel for its part is is already
working with the senior
coordinator and it has just this week
coordinated the entrance of a un
delegation into Northern Gaza in order
to evaluate the situation and map the
needs for a future return of Palestinian
civilians I recall in this connection
that in the agnc case the court found
that it was not necessary to indicate
provisional measures where the
government in question showed
willingness to act in accordance with
the recommendations of the security
Council concerning the matter before the
court all these recent developments
indicate that the facts as they
presently exist do not call for awarding
interim
relief they also suggest that the
difference between the present case and
earlier cases that have come before for
you are very
clear
finally the lack of urgency within the
meaning of the Court's case law is
further demonstrated by assurances
provided before you today by Israel's
co-agents they could not be clearer in
stating that Israel remains bound at all
times by its International legal
obligations needless to say this
includes Israel's obligations as a state
party to the genocide
convention the applicant will have this
court say that it cannot take the word
of a
state that would be not only
unfortunate it would also be contrary to
the law on unilateral Declarations of
States
unsurprisingly your consistent case law
suggests that assurances of the kind
offered by Israel May well render the
indication of provisional measures are
necessary Madame President members of
the Court the conclusion is that the
condition of irreparable prejudice and
urgency cannot be
met it is Israel and its citizens who
would risk irreparable harm if the
requests of South Africa were to be
granted Madame President distinguished
members of the court that concludes my
statement I thank you for your kind
attention